My overarching goal is to perform cutting-edge astroparticle research: to discover and characterise new physics and symmetries of nature, and their impacts upon astronomical observations. I ultimately wish to build and lead a large, strong and dedicated research group centred around the interface of particle physics and astronomy. This group will focus on dark matter and physics beyond the Standard Model of particle physics, with particular emphasis on quantitative, multi-messenger assessments of the leading theories of the day for new physics. To achieve this, I must continue to extend my experience in the extremely broad range of physics relevant to such a group, and gain the necessary professional experience to effectively build and lead it.

Next I must obtain the scientific and professional experience of a junior faculty member; a URF at Imperial offers an unparalleled opportunity to do this. The cosmological, statistical and astroparticle strengths of the Astronomy and Statistics groups, and the direct detection and collider expertise of the High Energy Physics group, provide an ideal environment in which to operate my independent research group. The URF will give me the opportunity to build this group, providing the stability to apply for further external funding to hire postdocs of my own, and take on students. This will allow me to take my leadership in astroparticle physics to the next level, and eventually run such a group in earnest as permanent faculty.

I have just under 3 years postdoctoral experience, 22 published or submitted articles in refereed journals, 10 refereed proceedings and 1214 citations.  My work includes some of the most rigorous global fits for new particle theories to date with data from indirect dark matter searches [1,6,12 in publication list].  This work significantly improved constraints on supersymmetric dark matter, and was only possible through dedicated collaborations between myself and the relevant experiments: first with gamma-ray data from Fermi-LAT [12] and HESS [6], then with IceCube neutrino events [1].  I also played a pivotal role in the recent correction of the chemical composition of the Sun [13], which impacts many areas of astronomy and astroparticle physics.

I have been awarded multiple externally-funded research grants and fellowships: The Banting Fellowship from the Canadian Government, the CfA Fellowship from Harvard University (which I declined), two other major grants and 7 smaller competitive travel fellowships. I won The Arrhenius Prize at Stockholm University for the best PhD thesis in Science, the Bok Prize from the Astronomical Society of Australia for the best Honours/Master thesis in astrophysics, and two University Medals for my Honours research at the Australian National University.

I have given 66 talks (19 invited) at international conferences and institutions, chairing 5 sessions. I convened the Particle Astrophysics and Cosmology Track at the 2012 International Conference on High Energy Physics (ICHEP), organised 2 smaller conferences, and founded the McGill Astroparticle Seminar Series. I am an associate member of the IceCube Collaboration and an affiliated scientist of the Fermi Large Area Telescope (LAT). I have refereed for 6 top-tier journals and authored 4 public astroparticle software packages. I created and lectured an official McGill course in numerical methods, served on an external PhD defence committee, and have mentored 3 PhD and 5 Masters students.

