Imperial offers the perfect combination of professional and scientific environments, computational resources and location.

1. An ideal professional environment
I will partake in decision-making and student supervision within the Astrophysics Group at Imperial as if already a permanent member of staff.  The group will factor my career path into their long-term strategy, with the intention of retaining me as a lecturer when the Rutherford Fellowship is complete.  I will have the opportunity to lecture graduate and undergraduate courses whilst a Rutherford Fellow, and to officially co-supervise PhD and Masters students.  I will be supported with extensive feedback from experienced faculty on my applications for further research funding, and on the process of building my own independent research group.

2. Vast expertise relevant to my research
I will collaborate closely and co-supervise students with Roberto Trotta, who has extensive experience in dark matter and global fits. My research program will both enhance the activities of and benefit greatly from the new Imperial Centre for Inference and Cosmology (ICIC), as I work with Alan Heavens, David van Dyk, et al in improving the numerical and statistical optimisation methods that are so central to my global fit research.  With Tim Sumner and Henrique Araujo I will ensure that results of LUX and other direct detection experiments are correctly included in my global fits, in the most detailed way possible: at the level of single nuclear recoil events. I will draw on the Imperial CMS group in developing the collider likelihood modules, particularly with respect to optimising fast detector simulations and applying comparable analysis event cuts to the proprietary CMS analyses.  Roberto Trotta, Andrew Jaffe, Daniel Mortlock, Carlo Contaldi and Arttu Rajantie will provide excellent cosmological expertise, including strong links to the team operating the Planck satellite.  Michael Duff and the Theory Group will be invaluable points of reference as quantum field theory questions arise when I and my new group implement many new particle models in the global fit codes.

3. Priority access to over 10,000 cores of cluster computing power
Imperial's High Performance Computing (HPC) facilities consist of three main computing clusters, boasting over 10,000 processor cores in total, a priority queue on a subset of these for the Astrophysics Group, and the ability to run single jobs on over 3,000 of the latest CPU cores.  This sort of computing infrastructure is essential for the highly computationally demanding, high-dimensional global fits that I will be carrying out in the course of my Rutherford Fellowship.  Running code on the Imperial HPC infrastructure will provide a perfect development base and the experience necessary to apply for additional time on the STFC HECToR and/or DiRAC HPC facilities.

4. A productive geographical location
The greater London area also boasts strong cosmology and particle phenomenology groups at University College London and King's College London respectively, leading to good prospects for future collaboration on scientific projects and organisation of conferences and workshops.  Finally, my wife works in international development; London is one of only a handful of cities in the world where we can both find positions commensurate with our expertise and interests.
